hi everyone I'm Alex and I'm sily
slighly is one of our expert teachers
and a course developer here at e2
language comm and she is also a polyglot
because she speaks six languages five
more than me so today we are going to
talk about our favorite topic speaking
in this session we're gonna introduce
you to 20 common IELTS topics we'll do
some speaking practice together
and then show you how to download a
speaking PDF so you can practice at home
so slightly when you took the IELTS test
you remember what topics you got in the
reading listening writing
I remember some of the topics that I got
I remember that was a passage about
education I think I had to write about
farming practices and there was another
one about some family mmm I had to read
about farming and my essay topic was
about job interviews and I had to speak
about a friend of mine I know I had to
speak about someone I knew who was
intelligent thank you so obviously there
are heaps of different IELTS topics and
you never really know what you're gonna
get on test day and that's something
that students request a lot they want a
list of all the common IELTS topics so
that's what we've done for you here are
20 common themes and topics you might
get in your IELTS test animals
art communication crime culture and
society education entertainment
environment family food and farming
global issues health media money Science
and Technology space sports transport
travel work
so those are the 20 broad themes that we
use you know of course and that we
recommend students to read up on and it
can seem like a lot can be a little
overwhelming people often say to us but
I don't know anything about farming or I
hate TV what am I gonna say about that
so there's two things to remember about
that firstly remember that it's a
language test they're not going to test
you on your general knowledge and it's
not a job interview you're not expected
to be an expert on any of these topics
so as long as you express your opinion
and you use language incredibly well to
state your opinion you'll be good and
the other thing to mention is that you
should treat this as a kind of
opportunity so if there is a lot of but
there are a lot of topics to get across
but that's a great chance for you to not
just improve your language but you also
can learn some really interesting things
while you're preparing files we're
always learning new stuff by researching
for our lessons so if you don't know
about farming or you don't know much
about space travel just google it read
about it listen to a podcast watch a TED
talk there's always something to learn
as you're improving your language and to
help you do this we've got two free
resources for you one is the e to IELTS
topic toolkit this is a series of topic
based vocab building toolkits so each
one has a list of vocabulary with space
to add your own a list of writing topics
speaking questions and don't forget the
resources section oh yeah so we've
curated a bunch of videos articles
podcasts for you yeah so you can watch a
video and then write an essay on a
similar topic or you can listen to a
podcast and then do some speaking
practice around the same theme you can
find the link to the topic toolkits in
the section below the other resource is
a blog with 20 common IELTS topics here
you can find essay questions on each
topic and you can download the speaking
pdf yeah and that's what we're going to
show you
today we're gonna use this wheel with
the 20 topics on it each topic
corresponds to a set of questions on the
speaking PDF you can read it off your
computer or print it out like we did now
we're going to spin the wheel and land
on a topic and we're going to use this
to of course practice speaking but we're
gonna add another element it would
challenge each other to focus either on
vocabulary or on grandma of course you
can just do this for fun and practice
speaking about all these different
topics but we're gonna add a little
degree of difficulty you ready a
challenge ourselves let's do it
you ready Alex yeah go
oh and Daymond okay so I have a
challenge for you I'm going to ask you
three buck one questions and for each
question you'll have to try and
incorporate certain grammar structures
okay okay easy so for the first question
I want you to use different types of
past tenses past tenses okay yes let's
do it
so here's your first question how often
do you go to the cinema hardly ever
actually but when I was a teenager I
used to go all the time my friends and I
would go almost every Tuesday because
they had it was half-price tickets but
when I was working in my early 20s I
lived really far from the city so I
stopped going to the cinema for a couple
of years and these days I find it a
little inconvenient to sit in the cinema
for two hours I feel like it's a waste
of time so I haven't been to the cinema
in about two years
I think how's my grandma that was
perfect
I forgot what she is used to would there
was a pass simple
do we count that I probably do better
next time but it's happy with that okay
all right okay so here is your next
challenge with this question I want you
to use the conditional any conditional
yeah any conditional okay do you think
young people or all the people prefer
going to the cinema oh younger or older
well actually I don't think it depends
on the age of the person all that much
it's more a matter of your taste do you
like going to the cinema and also money
have you got enough money to afford a
ticket I think that well where I live
going to assume is quite expensive it's
$20 plus so if it were cheaper to go to
the cinema I reckon that
everybody would do it it's a really
great way to spend your time well done
okay last question here I want you to
use um the future tense okay any future
going to try to use as many as you can
okay would you like to go to the cinema
more in the future
ah yes I would
I'm hoping to go next weekend actually
I've got plans with my friends we are
going out for lunch and I'll ask them
tonight maybe we can throw in a movie as
well otherwise by the end of the year I
won't have seen any movies so far wow
that was really good
did you hear all those yeah a little bit
unnatural but we're practicing grandma
yes okay let's swap and now we're gonna
work on vocabulary yes okay your turn
Tyler you ready here we go
and it landed on media media all right
I'm gonna ask you some pot three
questions now these are different to the
pot one questions that you are heated
not so personal they're a bit broader so
don't talk about yourself too much I'll
try and your challenge is to use some
interesting vocabulary nothing crazy in
a natural but vocab that's a little bit
more interesting than the vocab we
normally use when chatting okay you
ready let's talk about celebrities and
the media what kinds of people are most
famous in your country I think some
stars and creditors are most famous in
India a lot of Indians are fans of
cricket and because Bollywood is such an
integral part of society they're both
exert a lot of influence within the
Indian society and I think a lot of
these even television personalities for
that matter are revered across the car
they often have godlike status there are
actors in the South who who literally
have temples built for them so I feel
like definitely phone stars and cricket
eyes are the most popular people with
India did you hear her interesting
vocabulary revered concert godlike seven
very nice question number two why do you
think people are so interested in the
private lives of celebrities oh that's
an interesting question
I feel like curiosity isn't innately
human trait and that's possibly why so
many people are interested in the lives
of others not just celebrities did I
feel that different people have
different motivations for wanting to
know about the people that they look up
to but the paparazzi for example
probably does it for monetary reasons
where they want to make money by taking
intimate photos of celebrities I think
the general public they sort of
fantasize about the lives of celebrities
and they sort of want to have a glimpse
of like a luxurious life and they sort
of idolize them and they want a piece of
that that's probably why very nice
best vocabulary writer in the chat box
okay question three final question ready
hmm
do you think this should be stricter
rules regarding how celebrities are
treated in the media mmm yes I think
definitely there should be more
restrictions on access to celebrities
because um in today's world where it's
so easy to like have drones fly over
people's houses it's really hard for
celebrities to sort of maintain their
private lives and I feel like at the end
of the day they're human too and they
have the same rights to privacy that
we do and we hear about these actors and
musicians going through the depression
and they sometimes have different sorts
of mental illnesses because their life
is always you know on show so even
though we we love them and we adore them
I feel like sometimes too much of it can
be really dangerous by the way remember
to check out that other video about
vocabulary for IELTS and jump on our
blog to download the 20 speaking topics
that sily and I were just using so if
you want to work on your vocabulary or
practice speaking come and join us at ET
language comm you can find us in the
live classes or in tutorials or we are
there marking your writing and your
speaking and be sure to subscribe like
comment and share
[Music]